All ZCZC MIATCPAT4
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
Newsletter
Hurricane Helene Advisory No. 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL AL092024
1100 PM EDT Thursday, September 26, 2024
 
... HURRICANE HELENE IS VERY CLOSE TO MAKING LANDFALL IN FLORIDA
Bend...
... Accompanied by a catastrophic and life-threatening storm surge
Wind...
 
Summary of 1100 PM EDT... 0300 UTC... News
-----------------------------------------------
Location... 29.9N 83.9W
ABOUT 75 MI... 120 KM NW OF CEDAR KEY FLORIDA
About 40 miles... 70 KILOMETERS SOUTH OF TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA
Maximum sustained air... 140 miles per hour... 220 km/h
The current movement... NNE or 15 degrees at 24 miles per hour... 39 km/h
Minimum central pressure... 938 MB... 27.70 inches
 
Clock & Warnings
--------------------
Changes with this guide:
 
None
 
Summary of the watch and warnings in effect:
 
Warnings about storm surge are potent for...
* Mexican coast heading east and south to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Port of Charlotte
 
A storm warning is powerful for...
* Anclote River to Mexico Coast
 
Hurricane Watch is effective for...
* Englewood to Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
 
Tropical storm warnings are powerful for...
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortugas
* Flamingo to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
*West of the Mexican Coast to Okaloosa/Walton County line
* Flamingo north to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee
 
Warning of a storm surge means there is a life-threatening danger
Floods, from rising water move in the water from the coast. For
Description of risk areas, see National Weather
Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic service available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.
Being in these areas should take all necessary measures to
Protect lives and property from rising water and potential for
Ukuhlaziywa kwe-evacuation kunye nezinhlobo ezingaphezulu
Guidance from local officials.
 
Storm warning means storm conditions are expected
Somewhere in the warning area.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
Expect somewhere in the warning area.
 
A Hurricane Watch means storm conditions are possible
In the watch area.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United States
states, including possible water surveillance and warnings, please
Monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service.
Forecast Office for storm information specific to your area
Outside the U.S., inspect products issued by
Your National Meteorological Service
 
Discussion & Perspective
----------------------
At 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the center of Hurricane Helene is
Located near latitude 29.9 north, along 83.9 west, Helene is
The change is heading north-northeast at nearly 24 mph (39 km/h).  One turn
Heading north is expected overnight, taking the center over
Georgia.  The center of the storm should make landfall
Soon in the Big Bend area of Florida.
Helene is expected to turn northwest and slow down on
Tennessee Valley on Fridays and Saturdays.
 
Maximum sustained winds are closer to 140 mph (220 km/h) with higher
Helene is a very dangerous Category 4 storm on 
Typhoon Saffir-Simpson wind scale. 
After Helene moves into the territory, but the fast forward speed will allow 
Strong winds, destructive, especially in the air, to penetrate well 
throughout the southeastern United States, including 
The high geography of the southern Appalachians.
 
Storm winds stretch outwards up to 60 miles (95 km) from
The tropical storm's center and winds extended outwards up to 310 mph
(500 km).  Sustainable winds of 64 mph (103 km/h) with gusts of up to 84 mph 
mph (135 km/h) was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida. 
Winds of 83 mph (134 km/h) were recently reported at Steinhatchee, 
Florida.
 
Estimated minimum central pressure based on Hurricane Hunter 
The aircraft observation is 938 MB (27.70 inches).

NOAA National Oceanic Service flood gauges located in Cedar Key 
Recently reported a water level of 7.33 feet above meaningful 
Water.
 
Hazards affecting the soil
----------------------
Important messages for Helene can be found in tropical storms
Discussion under AWIPS MIATCDAT4 and WMO WTNT44 KNHC
and on the website at hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml
 
STORM SURGE: A COMBINATION OF LIFE-THREATENING STORM SURGE AND
Floods will cause normal dry areas near the coast to be flooded.
As the tide rises, it slides in the water from the coast.
Reach the following height above the ground somewhere in the indicated
If the highest rise occurs when the tide is high...
 
Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL... 15-20 feet
Apalachicola, FL to Carrabelle, FL... 10-15 feet
Suwannee River, FL to Chassahowitzka, FL... 10-15 feet
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL... 8-12 feet
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL... 6-10 feet
Anclote River, FL to Mid Longboat Key, FL... 5-8 feet
Tampa Beach... 5-8 feet
Half of Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL... 4-7 feet
East of the Mexican Coast, FL to Indian Pass, FL... 3-5 feet
Englewood, FL to Flamingo, FL... 3-5 feet
Port Charlotte... 3-5 feet
 
The deepest waters will occur along the coast near and to
east of the landfall location, where the rise will have
Accompanied by big waves and accidents.  Floodwaters associated with surge
Ukuhlaziywa kwe-rise kunye nezinhlobo ezingama-flood cycle
and can vary greatly over short distances.
Specific to your area, see products issued by your locals.
National Weather Service Forecast Office.
 
For a full description of areas at risk of drowning by storms,
See National Weather Service Peak Storm Surge graphic,
Available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
Wind: Storm conditions are occurring in storms
WARNING AREA.
Venture out into relative calm, as dangerous winds will increase
Quickly when the eyes pass.  Tropical storm conditions are
occurs in southern and central Florida, and these terms will
Continue to spread northward through tropical storm warning
areas in the southeastern United States until early Friday.
Damaging winds, especially in windy winds, are likely to penetrate far away
In the waters are the highlands of the southern Appalachians.
 
Rainfall: Over parts of the southeastern United States into the south
Appalachians, Helene are expected to produce a total rainfall gathering
From 6 to 12 inches, with a discrete total around 20 inches. The
Rainfall is likely to cause catastrophic and potentially catastrophic
Threats to life and urban flooding, along with
River flooding.
Steep conditions across the southern Appalachians.
 
For a full description of the rainfall forecast related to
Hurricane Helene See National Weather Service Storm
Total rainfall graph available at
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and flood risk
Graphics at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.
 
For a list of rainfall observations (and wind reports) related
This storm, see a summary of the companion storms in WBCSCCNS4 with
WMO ACUS44 KWBC or at the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.
 
Tornadoes: Risks for many tornadoes continue tonight via
Friday morning in parts of North/Central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina and southern North Carolina.
Still on Friday across Carolina and southern Virginia.
 
SURF: Swelling created by Helene will affect most of Florida and
The coasts of Georgia and the Carolinas during the next few days of
These swellings are likely to cause life-threatening and
Current conditions.
Weather office.
 
Next consultation
-------------
The next intermediate consultation is at 200 a.m. EDT.
Next complete guide at 500 AM EDT.
 
$$
Pasch Seer
 
NNNN