ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

INFORMATION
Hurricane Helene Advisory Number 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL AL092024
1100 PM EDT Thursday September 26 2024

Hurricane Helene is very close to making landfall in the greater Florida area.
turn...
...Along with a very severe and life-threatening storm
The winds...


SUMMARY 1100 PM EDT...0300 UTC... INFORMATION
-----
LOCATION...29.9N 83.9W
About 75 MI...120 KM NW OF CEDAR KEY FLORIDA
UP TO 40 MI...70 KM SE OF TALLAHASSEE FLORIDA
Maximum winds...140 MPH...220 KM/H
Current movement...NNE OR 15 degrees at 24 MPH...39 KM/H
Minimum central pressure...938 MB...27.70 inches


OBSERVATIONS AND WARNINGS
----
CHANGE IN THIS ADVICE:

None

SUMMARY OF OBSERVATIONS AND IMPACT WARNINGS:

A Storm Warning is in effect...
* The Mexican coast east and south to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Charlotte Harbor

A Hurricane Warning is in effect...
* Anclote River to the Mexican Coast

The Storm Watch has been activated...
* Englewood to Anclote River, including Tampa Bay

Tropical Storm Warning in effect...
* Florida Keys, including the Dry Tortugas
* Flamingo to Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* West Coast of Mexico to the Okaloosa/Walton County line
* Flamingo north to Little Inlet River
* Lake Okeechobee

A Hurricane Warning means there is a life-threatening danger.
the current, from rising water flowing inland from the coast. Because
For a view of dangerous areas, please see National Weather Service.
Image of the Storm Rising Warning Service, available at
hurricane.gov. This is a life-threatening situation. People
Those within these areas must take all necessary measures.
Protecting lives and property from rising waters and their consequences
other dangerous situations. Follow evacuation and other instructions immediately.
instructions from local officials.

A Hurricane Warning means that storm conditions are expected.
somewhere in the warning area.

A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere in the warning area.

A Hurricane Watch means that hurricane conditions are possible.
within the hour zone.

For information about specific storms in your area in the United
Regions, including possible local watches and warnings, please
Stay up-to-date with the latest news from the National Weather Service in your area.
forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
Outside the United States, please be aware of the products it produces.
National Weather Service.


DISCUSSION AND VIEW
----
As of 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the center of Hurricane Helene was
located near latitude 29.9 North, longitude 83.9 West. Helene is
Moving north-northeast near 24 mph (39 km/h).
The north is expected to be occupied overnight, with the center being taken over.
Georgia. The center of the storm should make landfall.
soon in the Big Bend region of Florida. After the earthquake,
Helene is expected to turn northwest and slow down.
Tennessee Valley on Friday and Saturday.

Sustained winds are near 140 mph (220 km/h) and above.
sleep. Helene is a very dangerous storm in category 4 
Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. Weakening expected. 
after Helene moves inland, but the forward momentum will allow 
Strong winds that cause damage, especially hurricanes, to penetrate well 
throughout the southeastern United States, including more than 
the highlands of the southern Appalachians.

The storm's powerful winds extend outward up to 60 miles (95 km) in direction.
The center and tropical-force winds extend outward for up to 310 miles.
(500 km). Sustained winds of 64 mph (103 km/h) with gusts up to 84 knots. 
mph (135 km/h) was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida. A 
Wind gusts of 83 mph (134 km/h) were recently reported in Steinhatchee, 
Florida

Minimum central pressure estimate based on Hurricane Hunter 
The aircraft's altitude is 938 mb (27.70 inches).

NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration estimates for Cedar Reservoir 
It was recently reported that the water level was 7.33 feet above average. 
water.


HAZARDS AFFECTING THE LAND
----
Key messages from Helene can be found at Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under the leadership of AWIPS MIATCDAT4 and WMO WTNT44 KNHC
and the website hurricane.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml

Hurricane Storm: A combination of a life-threatening storm and
The waves will cause areas near the coast to dry out normally, flooding the area.
rising water flowing inland from the coasts. The water was able to
reach heights above the ground at a specified location
areas if the highest flow occurs during high tide...

Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL...15-20 ft
Apalachicola, FL to Carrabelle, FL...10-15 ft
Suwannee River, FL to Chassahowitzka, FL...10-15 ft.
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL...8-12 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL...6-10 ft.
Anclote River, FL to Middle Longboat Key, FL...5-8 ft
Tampa Bay...5-8 ft
Middle of Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL...4-7 ft
East of the Mexican Coast, FL to Indian Creek, FL...3-5 ft.
Englewood, FL to Flamingo, FL...3-5 ft
Charlotte Harbor...3-5 ft

The lowest tides will occur near and near the shore.
east of the land area, where the stream will be
accompanied by large and dangerous waves. Floods associated with the operation
It depends on the relative timing of the tides and the cycle of the waves,
and can vary greatly over short distances. For more information
specifically for your area, please see the products produced in your area.
National Weather Service forecast office.

To fully demonstrate the areas most at risk from storm surge,
please see the top graph from the National Weather Service,
It can be found at hurricane.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.

WIND: Stormy conditions are occurring within the storm.
warning area. When the eye passes, people are reminded that it is not
Try to stay calm, as dangerous winds will increase.
rapidly as the eye passes. Tropical cyclone conditions are
occurring in south and central Florida, and these conditions
Tropical storm warning continues to be in effect northward
areas of the Southeast United States through early Friday. Strong,
Damaging winds, especially those moving at high speed, are likely to arrive by now.
inland as the highlands of the southern Appalachians.

RAIN: More parts of the Southeast US moving south
In the Appalachians, Helene is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations
of 6 to 12 inches, with a total isolated area of up to 20 inches. This
The heavy rains are likely to bring disaster and potential
life-threatening floods and urban flooding, accompanied by substantial
River flooding. Many significant landslides are expected.
rugged terrain throughout the southern Appalachians.

To get a complete picture of the rain forecast related to
Hurricane Helene, please see National Weather Service Hurricane
Total Rainfall Image, available at
hurricane.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and Flood Risk
graphic at hurricane.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.

List of relevant rainfall observations (and wind reports)
For this storm, see the accompanying storm theme WBCSCCNS4 with
Head of WMO ACUS44 KWBC or the following contact:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.

TORNADOES: The risk of several tornadoes continues tonight through tonight.
early Friday morning in parts of north/central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina, and southern North Carolina. The risk of tornadoes will be
continue Friday across the Carolinas and southern Virginia.

SURF: The swell from Helene will affect most of Florida and
the coasts of Georgia and the Carolinas during the next couple of
days. This swelling is likely to cause life-threatening bleeding and
tear current conditions. Please consult your local product.
weather office.


SUGGESTED ADVICE
------------
Next central advisory at 200 AM EDT.
The next advisory expires at 500 AM EDT.

$$
Pasch's prediction

NNNN