ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

circular
Hurricane Helen Advisory 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL AL092024
Thursday, September 26, 2024 at 11:00 PM EDT

...there's a very good chance that Hurricane Helen will make landfall in Florida.
bend...
...catastrophic storm surges and life-threatening
wind...


11:00 PM EDT...0300 UTC...Information Summary
-----------------------------------------------
Location...29.9 degrees north latitude, 83.9 degrees west longitude
About 75 miles northwest of Cedar Key, Florida...120 km
About 40 miles southeast of Tallahassee, Florida...70 km
Maximum sustained wind speed...140MPH...220KM/H
Current movement...NNE or 15 degrees, 24 miles per hour...39 km per hour
Minimum central pressure...938 MB...27.70 inches


Watches and Alerts
--------------------
Changes pursuant to this notice:

doesn't exist

Summary of current surveillance and warnings:

...a storm surge warning has been issued for the area.
* Mexico Beach East and South to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Charlotte Harbor

A hurricane warning has been issued...
* From the Anclote River to Mexico Beach

A hurricane watch has been issued.
* From Englewood to Anclote River, including Tampa Bay

A tropical storm warning has been issued for ...
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortugas
* From Flamingo to Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* West of Mexico Beach to the Okaloosa/Walton County border
* North of Flamingo to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee

A storm surge warning means there is a life-threatening hazard.
Flooding caused by rising water levels flowing inland from the coastline.
For descriptions of hazardous areas, see the National Weather Service.
Service Storm Surge Watch/Warning graphics are available at:
hurricanes.gov. This is a life-threatening situation.
If you are located within this area, you must take all necessary measures.
Protects life and property from rising water and potential hazards.
If any other dangerous situation occurs, immediately evacuate and take other measures.
Directions from local officials.

A hurricane warning means that hurricane conditions are expected.
Somewhere within the warning zone.

A tropical storm warning indicates that tropical storm conditions are possible.
It is expected to occur somewhere within the warning zone.

A hurricane watch means there is a possibility of hurricane conditions.
Within the surveillance area.

To find out storm information for your area in the United States:
Countries with inland surveillance and warnings include:
Monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
Forecast office. For storm information for your area.
Outside the United States, monitor products issued by:
Your national weather service.


Discussion and Outlook
----------------------
As of 11 p.m. ET (3 a.m. UTC), the center of Hurricane Helen was
It is located at about 29.9 degrees north latitude and 83.9 degrees west longitude. Helen
Moving north-northeast at 24 miles per hour (39 km/h). Rotation
It is expected to head north and pass through the center at night.
Georgia. The center of the hurricane is expected to make landfall.
It's expected to make landfall in Florida's Big Bend region soon.
Helen is expected to turn northwest and slow down.
It's Friday and Saturday in Tennessee Valley.

Maximum sustained winds are expected to be close to 140 mph (220 km/h) and possibly higher.
Gust. Helen is a very dangerous Category 4 hurricane. 
Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Speed Scale. Weakening Expected 
After Helen moves inland, fast transmission speeds are allowed. 
It is particularly susceptible to strong and destructive winds, especially when gusts blow. 
Including the inland southeastern United States 
The high terrain of the southern Appalachian Mountains.

Hurricane-force winds can reach up to 60 miles (95 km).
Central and tropical storm-force winds extend outward up to 310 miles.
(500 km). Sustained winds of 64 mph (103 km/h) with gusts of 84 
A recent record of mph (135 km/h) was reported in Cedar Key, Florida. 
A gust of 83 mph (134 km/h) was recently reported in Steinhatchee. 
Florida.

Estimated minimum central pressure according to Hurricane Hunter 
The aircraft observation was 938 mb (27.70 in).

NOAA National Ocean Service Tide Gauge located in Cedar Key 
A recent high water level of 7.33 feet above average was reported. 
water.


Risks affecting the land
----------------------
The key message to Helen can be found in the tropical depression.
Discussion on AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC
And it's available on the web at hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml.

Storm surge: Life-threatening storm surges and
Normally dry areas near the coast will be flooded due to the tides.
By rising water moving inland from the coastline. The water
Reach the next height from the ground somewhere in the indicated area.
Areas where maximum tsunamis occur during high tide...

From Caravelle, Florida to the Suwannee River, Florida...15-20 feet
From Apalachicola, Florida to Caravelle, Florida...10-15 feet
From the Suwanee River, Florida to Chasahowitzka, Florida... 10-15 feet
From Chassahovitzka, Florida to the Anclote River, Florida...8 to 12 feet
From Indian Pass, Florida to Apalachicola, Florida...6-10 feet
From the Anclote River in Florida to the middle of Longboat Key in Florida...5-8 feet.
Tampa Bay...5-8 feet
From the middle of Longboat Key, Florida to Inglewood, Florida...4-7 feet
From Mexico Beach, Florida east to Indian Pass, Florida...3-5 feet
From Inglewood, Florida to Flamingo, Florida...3-5 feet
Charlotte Harbor...3-5 feet

The deepest water occurs along the near shore.
East of the landing site where the tsunami will occur
Accompanied by large and dangerous waves. Floods due to tsunamis.
It depends on the relative timing of the surge and tidal cycles.
Even short distances can make a big difference. For more information,
It varies by region, so check with your local authority for products issued in your region.
National Meteorological Administration Forecast Office.

For a complete description of areas at risk for storm surge flooding.
See the National Weather Service's maximum storm surge graphic.
See hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.

WIND: Hurricane conditions are developing within the hurricane.
Warning zone. People are reminded not to do the following when passing through the snow:
As dangerous winds increase, go to relatively calm places.
Very fast as the snow passes. Tropical storm conditions
Occurs in South and Central Florida and these conditions include:
A tropical storm warning has been issued as it continues to move north.
Strong winds are expected across the Southeastern United States through Friday morning.
Especially when gusts blow, the damaging winds are likely to penetrate far.
Inland are the high terrain of the Southern Appalachians.

Precipitation: From parts of the southeastern United States to the southern regions
The Appalachians and Helens are expected to record the highest total precipitation.
6 to 12 inches, with an isolated total of about 20 inches.
There is a possibility that the rain will cause a disaster.
Significant life-threatening explosions and urban flooding
River flooding. Multiple serious landslides are expected.
The steep terrain of the southern Appalachian Mountains.

For a complete description of the predicted rainfall
Hurricane Helen, Check the National Weather Service Storm
Total precipitation graphics are available at:
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and heavy rain risk
See the graphic at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.

Here is a list of rainfall observations (and wind reports):
For this storm, see the accompanying storm summary in WBCSCCNS4.
WMO Header ACUS44 KWBC or the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.

TORNADOES: The risk of multiple tornadoes continues through tonight.
Early Friday morning across parts of northern/central Florida and Georgia.
South Carolina and southern North Carolina. Tornado risk
Rain is expected to continue across the Carolinas and southern Virginia on Friday.

Surfing: The waves generated by Helen will impact much of Florida.
The Georgia and Carolina coasts over the next few years
For several days, these waves have the potential to produce life-threatening waves.
The current situation is not good. Please check the products of local companies.
Meteorological Administration.


Next recommendation
-------------
The next Interim Alert will be announced at 2:00 a.m. ET.
The following full advisory will be released at 5:00 a.m. ET.

$$
Forecaster Pash

No no no