ZCZC MIATCPAT4 All
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
notice
Hurricane Helen Advisory No. 15
NWS National Hurricane Center, Miami, FL, AL092024
Thursday, September 26, 2024 at 1100 p.m. EDT
 
... Hurricane Helen almost made landfall in Florida.
Bow...
... Catastrophic storm surge and life-threatening companionship
Wind...
 
1100 p.m. EDT Recap... 0300 UTC... information
-----------------------------------------------
Location... 29.9N 83.9W
About 75 miles... 120 KM NW CEDAR QUAY FL
About 40 miles... 70 KM SE TALLAHASSEE, FL
Winds sustained up... 140 miles per hour... 220KM/h
The current movement... 24 degrees at NNE or 15 MPH... 39KM/H
Minimum center pressure... 938 MB... 27.70 inches
 
Surveillance and Warning
--------------------
Changes in this advisory:
 
none
 
Summary of surveillance and alerts in place:
 
A Storm Surge Warning is in effect.
* Mexican beaches east and south to flamingos
*Tampa bay
* Charlotte Harbor
 
A hurricane warning is in effect...
* From the Anclote River to the Mexican Beach
 
Hurricane Watch is valid when:
*Englewood to Anclote River (including Tampa Bay)
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect.
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortugas
*From Flamingo to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* Mexico Beach west to Okaloosa/Walton County line
* Flamingos north to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee
 
A storm surge warning means there is a life-threatening hazard.
Flooding caused by rising water moving inland from the coastline. because
For a description of the danger zone, see National Weather.
Service storm surge advisory/warning graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  people
You must be located within these areas and take all necessary measures.
Protect lives and property from rising water and possibilities.
Other dangerous conditions.  Quickly follow evacuation and other tasks.
Instruction from local officials.
 
A hurricane warning means hurricane conditions are expected
Somewhere within the warning area.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that a tropical storm condition is:
Expect it to be somewhere within the alert area.
 
A hurricane advisory means hurricane conditions are possible
Within the surveillance area.
 
Storm information for the area in the United States
State including possible inland advisories and warnings, please
Monitoring of products issued by the local National Weather Service
Forecast Office. Storm information specific to your area
Outside the United States, monitor products issued by .
Your country's weather office.
 
Discussion and Prospects
----------------------
At 1100 p.m. ET (0300 UTC), the center of Hurricane Helen
It is located near latitude 29.9 north and longitude 83.9 west. Helene
Move north-northeast near 24 mph (39 km/h).  turn
It is expected to occupy the center overnight to the north.
Georgia.  The center of the hurricane will make landfall.
Soon in Florida's Big Bend area.  after disembarkation,
Helene is expected to turn northwest and slow down over the river.
The Tennessee Valley is on Fridays and Saturdays.
 
Maximum sustained wind speeds are close to 140 mph (220 km/h) and beyond.
Wind speed.  Helene is a very dangerous Category 4 hurricane. 
Saffir-Simpson hurricane wind scale.  Weakening is expected 
After Helene moves inland, however, the fast-forward speed will be allowed. 
Strong and destructive winds, especially gusts of wind, can penetrate well. 
Across the southeastern United States and inland 
High terrain in the Southern Appalachian Mountains.
 
Hurricane-class winds extend outward for up to 60 miles (95 kilometers).
Winds from the center and tropical storm class extend outward up to 310 miles
Persists with winds of 64 miles per hour (103 km/h) and gusts of 84 degrees. 
A speed of 135 km/h was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida.   A 
Recently, a wind gust of 83 mph (134 km/h) was reported at Steinhatchee. 
Florida.
 
Minimum central pressure estimated based on Hurricane Hunter 
Aerial observation is 938 MB (27.70 inches).

NOAA National Ocean Service tide station located in Cedar Key 
It was recently reported that an average water level of 7.33 feet means higher. 
Water.
 
Hazards affecting land
----------------------
The key message about Helene can be found in the tropical cyclone.
Discussion on AWIPS Header MIATCDAT4 and WMO Header WTNT44 KNHC
And on the web of hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml
 
STORM SURGE: LIFE-THREATENING STORM SURGE AND
Tides will flood normally dry areas near the coast
by rising water moving inland from the coastline.  Water
Somewhere marked, reach the next height from the ground.
The area where the maximum tsunami occurs at high tide...
 
Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL... 15-20 feet
From Appalachicola, Florida to Caravel, Florida... 10-15 feet
Suwannee River, Florida to Chassahowitzka, FL... 10-15 feet
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL... 8-12 feet
Indian Pass, FL - Appalachicola, FL... 6-10 feet
Anclote River, FL to Longboat Key, halfway through FL... 5-8 feet
Tampa bay... 5-8 feet
From the middle of Longboat Key, Florida to Inglewood, Florida... 4-7 feet
East of Mexico Beach, Florida Indian Pass, Florida ... 3-5 feet
Flamingos in Inglewood, Florida... 3-5 feet
Charlotte Harbor... 3-5 feet
 
The deepest water occurs along the near coast.
East of the landing site where the tsunami will be
It is accompanied by large and dangerous waves.  Surge-related flooding
It depends on the relative timing of the surge and tidal cycles.
It can vary greatly over short distances.  Learn more
Depending on your region, please refer to the products issued in your region.
National Weather Service Forecast Office.
 
To perfectly depict an area at risk of storm surge flooding:
See the National Weather Service's Peak Storm Surge Graphic.
Available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
Wind: A hurricane situation is occurring within a hurricane.
Warning area.  When the snow passes by, people are reminded of what not to do
Dangerous winds will increase, so venture into a place of relative quiet.
Very fast as the snow passes.  Tropical storm conditions include:
It occurs in South and Central Florida, and these conditions
Continue spreading north across tropical storm warning
From the southeastern United States to early Friday.  strong
Destructive winds, especially gusts, are likely to penetrate far
It is located inland as a high point in the southern Appalachian Mountains.
 
Rainfall: From parts of the southeastern United States to the south.
The Appalachian Mountains, Helene, are expected to produce total rainfall
That's about 6 to 12 inches, and a total of 20 inches in isolation. two
Rainfall can have catastrophic and potentially catastrophic consequences.
life-threatening flash and urban flooding, and severe
River flooding. Numerous serious landslides are expected in the
Steep terrain that runs through the Southern Appalachian Mountains.
 
For a complete description of the expected rainfall associated with
See Hurricane Helen, National Weather Service storm.
Total rainfall graphic, available in
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and flash flood risk
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero of graphics.
 
List of relevant rainfall observations (and wind reports)
This storm is WBCSCCNS4 with the
WMO header ACUS44 KWBC or the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.
 
Tornado: The danger of multiple tornadoes continues into tonight.
Early Friday morning in parts of North/Central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina, South North Carolina. The risk of tornadoes
On Friday, it will last throughout the Carolinas and Southern Virginia.
 
Waves: The swells produced by the Helene will affect much of Florida.
Over the next few years, the coast of Georgia and Carolina
These swells have the potential to cause life-threatening waves.
RIP Current Status.  See products in your area.
Observatory.
 
Next Recommendation
-------------
The next midterm advisory will begin at 200 a.m. ET.
The following advisory will be completed at 500 a.m. ET.
 
$$
Weathercaster Pash
 
NNNN