ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
NEWS
Hurricane Helene Advisory Number 15
NWS National Hurricane Miami FL AL092024
1100 PM EDT Thu Sep 26 2024
 
... HURRICANE HELENE VERY CLOSE TO MAKING LAND IN FLORIDA BIG
BANANAS...
... ACCOMPANIED BY CATASTROPHIC STORM SURGE AND LIFE-THREATENING
WIND...
 
SUMMARY 1100 PM EDT... 0300 UTC... INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------
LOCATION... 19.9 D 8.9E E
ABOUT 75 Mi... 120 KM NW OF CEDAR KEY FLORIDA
ABOUT 40 Mi... 30 KM SE OF FLORIDA TALLAHASSEE
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS... 140 MPH...... 220 KM/H
THE EXHIBITION MOVEMENT... NNE OR 15 DEGREES AT 24 MPH... 24 KM/H
AT LEAST CENTRAL PRESSURE... 938 MB... 27,70 INCHES
 
LOOKING AND WARNING.
--------------------
CHANGES TO THIS ADVICE:
 
None
 
SUMMARY OF THE SIGNS AND WARNINGS THAT AFFECT:
 
Storm surgery warning is in effect...
* Mexico Beach east and south to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
**** Hotel Inn
 
Hurricane warnings are in effect...
* Anclote River to Mexico Beach
 
Hurricane Watch in effect...
* Englewood to Anclote River, which includes Tampa Bay
 
A storm warning the ball is impacting...
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortugas
* Flamingo to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* Western Mexico Beach to okaloosa/Walton District Line
* Flamingo north to Little River Inlet
*** THE PARK, CHIANG MAI *
 
Hurricane surgery warning means there is a serious risk of life
flooding, rising water is moving inland to the coast. Who is it
depiction of those areas in danger, please see the reputation of the National Air Force
Storm Surge Watch/Graphic Warning Service, available
hurricanes.gov.  This situation is a life-threatening condition.  Population
within these areas they must take all necessary measures
protect the lives and property of developing water and what it comes from
other dangerous conditions.  Follow evacuations and others quickly
guidelines submitted jointly by municipal officials
 
A hurricane warning means that storm conditions are expected
somewhere in the warning area,
 
Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
expected somewhere in the warning area.
 
Hurricane Watch means hurricane conditions are possible
within the patrolling area.
 
For hurricane information specific to your area in United
For states, including possible internal observations and alerts, please
inspect the products produced by the national brand service in your area
Forecast office. For storm information specific to your area
outside of the U.S., please follow the product it produced
national forecasting service
 
DISCUSSION AND VIDEO
----------------------
At 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the Hurricane Helene facility was
it is located near latitude 29.9 North, a length of 83.9 West. Helene
Move northeastward at nearly 24 mph (39 km/h).  A lady
The northern side is expected to be around the other side at night
Georgia.  The storm that is supposed to fall on the ground
soon in the Big Bend region of Florida.  After the earth landed,
Helene is expected to turn north-westward and slow down
Tennessee Valley friday and Saturday.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 140 mph (220 km/h) with highs
gusts.  Helene is a very dangerous storm on 4th floor 
Tidal Measurements of the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane.  Weakening is expected 
after Helene moves inside, but at a faster pace the attack will allow him 
strong winds, damage, especially disruption, well penetrate 
within the entire southeastern United States, including more 
highlands in the southern Appalachians.
 
The storm's force winds are outward to 60 miles (95 km) from the outside
center wind and storm-storm-force wind extend outdoors for up to 310 miles
(500 km).  A sustained gust of 64 mph (103 km/h) falling at 84. 
Mph (135 km/h) was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida.   A 
about 83 mph (134 km/h) was recently reported in Steinhatchee, 
Florida.
 
Minimum central pressure estimated based on Hurricane Hunter 
the aircraft visibility is 938 mb (27.70 inches).

A NOAA National Ocean Hurricane Gauge Service Ocean located at Cedar Key 
recently reported water level of 7.33 feet above the high average altitude 
water.
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING THE EARTH
----------------------
Key messages for Helene can be found in Tropical Storm
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 header and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC
And on the web in hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml
 
HURRICANES: The combination of a life-threatening storm and
the tides will cause them to normally be dry and near the coast to flood
as the waters rise, moving out of the land from the shore.  Water
reach the following heights above the ground in a described area
areas if the highest increase occurs at the time of high tires...
 
Carelle, FL, EE. U.S. 15-20 ft
Apalachicola, FL to Caraba, FL... 10-15 ft
Suwannee River, Florida, FL to Chassahowitzka, FL... 10-15 ft
Chassahowitzka, FL, FL to Anclote River, FL... 8-12 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL... 6-10 ft
Anclote River, FL in the Middle of Longboat Key, FL... 5-8 ft
Taam Bay... 5-8 ft
Middle in Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL... 4-7 ft
Eastern Mexico Beach, FL to Indian Pass, FL... 3-5 ft
Englewood, FL to Flamingo, FL... 3-5 ft
Al Maadan Gonabad... 3-5 ft
 
The longest waterfalls will occur on the near coast and that
east east of the landfall site, where it rose it will be
accompanied by large, dangerous waves.  Flooding related to agitation
depends on the relative timing of the awakening and the tiding cycle,
And they can vary over short distances.  For information
specific to your area, please see the products produced by your area
National Weather Service Forecast Office.
 
For to show completely the areas at risk of flooding by erosion,
Please see Graphic Peak Storm Rise national storm,
it was hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
WIND: Hurricane conditions are taking place in the storm
the warning area.  When the eye passes, it is remembered that people do not
fly for relative tranquility, with dangerous winds increasing
soon when the eye passes.  Tropical storm conditions are
in south and central Florida, and in these cases
spreading to the north during the boiler storm warning
locations in the Southeastern United States through Friday afternoon.  Strong,
damaging winds, especially in disruption, will likely penetrate as far away
inland as the highlands of the southern appalachians.
 
Precipitation: More than parts of the Southeastern United States in the South
The Appalachians, Helene are expected to produce total rain accumulation
6 to 12 inches, with a total isolate of around 20 inches. This is
rains that will likely lead to disaster and potential
life-threatening flash and flooding of the city, along with practical
river flood. Many large earthquakes are expected to fall out
very steep terrain that enters from the southern appalachians.
 
For the complete demonstration of predictive precipitation related
Hurricane Helene, please see Storm National Weather Service
Total Precipitation Graphic, available
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and the Dangers of Flooding
graphic at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.
 
To look at rainfall protection (and related wind reports)
this storm, is summarized by the companion of the accompanying WBCSCCNS4
WMO heads to ACUS44 KWBC or at the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.
 
UFOOYIN: The risk of several upheaths continues tonight through
early Friday morning in parts of north/central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina and southern North Carolina. The tornado threat
Friday crossed from the Carolinas and southern Virginia on Friday.
 
SURF: The inflammation produced by Helene will affect much of Florida and
the Georgia coast and the Carolinas during the next two
days.  These inflammations may cause life-threatening surf and
rip current conditions.  Please consult takeaways from your municipality
Weather Service Office
 
NEXT TIP
-------------
Next centralized tip at 200 AM EDT.
The next complete tip at 500 AM EDT.
 
$$
Pasch's prediction
 
NNNN