All ZCZC MIATCPAT4.
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

NEWSLETTER
Hurricane Helen, Advisory No. 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL AL092024
1100 PM EDT September 26, 2024

... HURRICANE HELENE IS ABOUT TO MAKE LAND IN FLORIDA
Bend...
...accompanied by catastrophic storms and threats to life
Wind...


Summary of 1100 PM EDT...0300 UTC...news
------------------------------------------------
Location...29.9N 83.9W
Approximately 75 MI...120 KM NW of CEDAR KEY FLORIDA
Approximately 40 MI...70 KM SE of TALLAHASSEE FLORIDA
Maximum wind gusts...140 MPH...220 KM/H
Current movement...NNE or 15 degrees at 24 MPH...39 KM/H
Minimum central pressure...938 mb...27.70 inches


Clocks and warnings
--------------------
Changes with this guide:

None

Summary of the viewing and resulting warnings:

A storm surge warning is in effect for...
* Mexican coast to the east and south towards Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Port Charlotte

Hurricane warnings are in effect for...
* Anclote River to the Mexican coast

Hurricane Watch in effect for...
* Englewood to Anclote River, including Tampa Bay

Tropical Storm Warning in effect for...
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortuga
* Flamingo to Anclote River including Tampa Bay
* West of the Mexican coast to the Okaloosa/Walton County line
* Flamingo heads north to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee

A storm surge warning means there is a risk to life.
Flooding from rising water moving inland from the coast. For
Description of risk areas, see National Weather Service.
Storm Surge Watch/Warning Graphic service is available at
hurricanes.gov. This is a life-threatening situation. Individuals
located in these areas should take all necessary measures.
Protect life and property from rising waters and the potential for
Other dangerous conditions, follow immediate evacuation, etc.
Guidance from local officials.

A hurricane warning means that stormy conditions are expected.
Somewhere in the warning zone.

A tropical storm warning means tropical storm conditions are
Expect somewhere in the warning zone.

A Hurricane Watch means hurricane conditions are possible.
In the surveillance area.

For storm information specific to your area in the United
State, including watches and possible warnings, please
Check the products issued by your local National Weather Service.
Forecast Office. For storm information specific to your area.
Outside the United States, please follow the products issued by
Your National Weather Service.


Discussion and perspectives
-----------------------
At 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the center of Hurricane Helene was
Located near latitude 29.9 north, longitude 83.9 west. Helen is
Heading north-northeast near 24 mph (39 km/h). One turn.
Heading north is expected overnight, capturing the center.
Georgia. The center of the storm should make landfall.
Soon in the Big Bend region of Florida. After the collapse,
Helene is expected to turn northwest and slow down over the surface.
Tennessee Valley on Friday and Saturday.

Maximum sustained winds are near 140 miles per hour (220 kilometers per hour) with higher gusts possible.
Hurricane Helene is the most dangerous Category 4 hurricane on record. 
Saffir-Simpson hurricane scale. Weakening is expected. 
After Helene moves in the ground, but the fast forward speed will allow 
Strong winds, especially gusty winds, for good penetration 
The entire southeastern United States, including the region 
The highlands of the southern Appalachians.

The hurricane's winds extended outward up to 60 miles (95 km) from
Central and tropical cyclones extend outward up to 310 miles.
(500 km). Winds were gusting to 64 mph (103 km/h) with gusts to 84 mph. 
mph (135 km/h) was recently reported at Cedar Key, Florida. A 
Wind gusts of 83 mph (134 km/h) were recently reported in Steinhatchee, 
Florida.

Estimated minimum central pressure based on Hurricane Hunter 
The aircraft's observation was 938 mb (27.70 inches).

NOAA National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration tide gauge located at Cedar Key 
Recently reported water levels of 7.33 feet above mean higher. 
Water.


Hazards affecting the ground
-----------------------
Important messages for Helene can be found in tropical cyclones
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC
and on the website hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml

STORM SURGE: A combination of life-threatening storm surge and
The tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to be flooded.
With high tide moving in from the shore. Water can
Reach the following height above the ground at any indicated location.
Areas that experience high water levels during heavy rains...

Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL ... 15-20 ft
Apalachicola, FL to Carrabelle, FL...10-15 ft
Suwannee River, FL to Chassahowitzka, FL...10-15 ft
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL...8-12 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL...6-10 ft.
Anclote River, FL to the middle of Longboat Key, FL...5-8 feet
Tampa Bay ... 5-8 feet
Central Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL...4-7 ft
East of the Mexican coast, FL to Indian Pass, FL...3-5 ft.
Englewood, FL to Flamingo, FL...3-5 ft
Charlotte Harbor... 3-5 feet

The deepest water will occur along the coast immediately near and to
East of the mainland location, which will increase
Accompanied by large and dangerous waves. Flood-related flooding
Depending on the relative timing of the rise and fall of the tides,
and can vary greatly over short distances. For information
Specific to your region, see the products released by your region.
National Weather Service.

For a complete description of areas at risk of storm flooding,
See the National Weather Service Peak Storm Surge graphic,
Available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.

Wind: Hurricane conditions are occurring in the storm.
Warning zone. When the eyes cross, people are reminded not to
Entering relative calm as strong winds increase.
rapidly as the eye passes. Tropical storm conditions are
occurring in south and central Florida, and these conditions will
Continues to spread northward through tropical storm warning
Areas of the southeastern United States through Friday morning. Strong,
Strong winds, especially gusty winds, are likely to penetrate far.
The mainland is the highlands of the southern Appalachians.

Rainfall: Over parts of the southeastern United States, moving south
Appalachians, Helene expected to produce total precipitation accumulations
6 to 12 inches with a total of about 20 inches of separation. This.
Rainfall is likely to be catastrophic and potentially
Life-threatening light and urban flooding, along with the importance
River flooding. Several major landslides are expected in
Steep terrain across the southern Appalachians.

For a complete description of the precipitation forecast associated with
Hurricane Helen, see National Weather Service hurricane
Total rainfall graph is available at
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and flash flood risk
Graphic at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.

For a list of relevant rainfall observations (and wind reports)
This storm, see the companion storm summary at WBCSCCNS4 with
Header WMO ACUS44 KWBC or via the link below:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.

TORNADOES: The risk for multiple tornadoes continues tonight.
Friday morning over parts of north/central Florida, Georgia
South Carolina and southern North Carolina. Hurricane risk will
Continues Friday across the Carolinas and southern Virginia.

SURF: Swells generated by Helene will affect Florida and
The coasts of Georgia and California during the next couple of years.
These swellings are likely to be life-threatening and
Rip current conditions. Please consult your local product.
Weather Bureau.


Next instructions
-------------
Next moderate advisory at 200 am EDT.
Next full advisory at 5:00 AM EDT.

$$
The Pasch Prophet

Nn nn n