ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Helene Advisory No. 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL AL092024
1100 PM EDT Thursday, September 26, 2024
 
... HURRICANE HELENE IS VERY CLOSE TO MAKING LANDFALL IN FLORIDA BIG
Bend...
... ACCOMPANIED BY A CATASTROPHIC AND LIFE-THREATENING STORM
WIND...
 
SUMMARY 1100 PM EDT ... 0300 UTC... INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------
LOCATION... 29.9N 83.9W
ABOUT 75 MI... 120 KM NORTHWEST OF CEDAR KEY FLORIDA
ABOUT 40 MI... 70 KM SOUTHEAST OF TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA
THE WIND MAINTAINS THE MAXIMUM... 140 MPH... 220 KM/H
THE CURRENT MOVEMENT... NNE OR 15 DEGREES AT 24 MPH... 39 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE... 938 MB... 27.70 INCH
 
CLOCKS AND ALARMS
--------------------
CHANGE WITH THIS ADVICE:
 
No one
 
SUMMARY OF WATCHES AND WARNINGS IN EFFECT:
 
Storm surge warning is in effect for...
* Mexican beaches east and south to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Port of Charlotte
 
Storm warnings are in effect for...
* Anclote River to Mexico Beach
 
Storm monitoring is in effect for...
* Englewood to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
 
Tropical storm warnings are in effect for...
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortugas
* Flamingo to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* West of Mexico Beach to Okaloosa/Walton County Road
* Flamingo north to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee
 
Storm surge warning means life-threatening risk
flooding, due to rising water moving inland from the coast. Give
description of at-risk areas, please see National Weather
Storm surge warning/monitoring graphics service, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  Person
located in these areas should take all necessary actions to
Protecting lives and property from rising waters and potential
other dangerous conditions.  Timely monitoring of evacuation and other issues
guidance from local officials.
 
Storm Warning means that storm conditions are expected to occur
somewhere in the warning area.
 
Tropical storm warning means tropical storm conditions
expected somewhere in the warning area.
 
Hurricane tracking means that hurricane conditions can occur
in the clock area.
 
For hurricane information specific to your area in the United States
States, including possible domestic warnings and warnings
monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
forecasting office. For hurricane information specific to your area
outside the United States, please track the products produced by
Your National Meteorological Service.
 
DISCUSSION AND OUTLOOK
----------------------
At 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the epicenter of Hurricane Helene is
located near latitude 29.9 North, longitude 83.9 West. Helene is
moving north-northeast near 24 mph (39 km/h).  One turn
to the north is expected to spend the night, occupying the center
Georgia.  The center of the storm will make landfall
very early in the Big Bend region of Florida.  After landing,
Helene is expected to turn northwest and slow down on the
Tennessee Valley on Fridays and Saturdays.
 
Maximum sustained winds of nearly 140 mph (220 km/h) at higher speeds
Gusts.  Helene is an extremely dangerous Category 4 hurricane on 
Wind scale of Hurricane Saffir-Simpson.  Expected to weaken 
after Helene moves inland, but the fast forward speed will allow 
Strong winds, which are harmful, especially when the wind is gusty, to penetrate well 
land throughout the southeastern United States, including on 
the higher terrain of the southern Appalachian.
 
Hurricanes extend outwards up to 60 miles (95 km) from
Center winds and tropical storm winds extend outwards for up to 310 miles
(500 km).  Sustained winds of 64 mph (103 km/h) with gusts of up to 84 mph 
mph (135 km/h) was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida.   One 
Wind gusts of 83 mph (134 km/h) were recently reported at Steinhatchee, 
Florida.
 
Estimated minimum center pressure based on Hurricane Hunter 
The aircraft observation is 938 MB (27.70 inches).

NOAA National Oceanic Service tide meter located on Cedar Key 
Water levels were recently reported 7.33 feet above average high 
Water.
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING THE LAND
----------------------
Key messages for Helene can be found during tropical storm
Discussion under AWIPS MIATCDAT4 and WMO WTNT44 KNHC
and on the web at hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml
 
STORM SURGE: A combination of life-threatening storm surge and
The tides will cause normal dry areas near the coast to be flooded
by the way the rising water moves inland from the coast.  Water can
reach the following heights on the ground somewhere in
the area if the highest water rise occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL... 15-20 ft
Apalachicola, FL to Carrabelle, FL... 10-15 ft
Suwannee River, FL to Chassahowitzka, FL... 10-15 ft
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL... 8-12 ft
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL... 6-10 ft
Anclote River, FL to the middle of Longboat Key, FL... 5-8 ft
Tampa Bay... 5-8 ft
Between Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL... 4-7 ft
East Mexico Beach, FL to Indian Pass, FL... 3-5 ft
Englewood, FL to Flamingo, FL... 3-5 ft
Port Charlotte... 3-5 ft
 
The deepest water will occur along the coast near and to
to the east of the landing site, where the water surge will occur
accompanied by large and dangerous waves.  Flooding associated with rising water
depending on the relative duration of the rise and tide cycle,
and can change a lot in a short distance.  For information
specific to your area, please see your local released products
The forecast office of the National Weather Service.
 
To fully describe areas at risk of flooding due to storm surges,
please see the National Weather Service's Peak Hurricane Surge Graphic,
available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
WIND: Storm conditions are occurring during a storm
warning area.  When the eye passes, people are reminded not to
venturing into relatively quiet land, as dangerous winds will increase
very quickly when the eyes passed.  Tropical storm conditions are
occur in southern and central Florida, and these conditions will
continue to spread northward through tropical storm warnings
areas in the Southeastern United States until early Friday.  Strong
Damaging winds, especially in gusty winds, are likely to penetrate far
land as the higher terrain of the southern Appalachian.
 
PRECIPITATION: Over parts of the Southeastern United States into the South
Appalachians, Helene are expected to produce total accumulated rainfall
from 6 to 12 inches, with a total isolation of about 20 inches. This
Rainfall will likely lead to disaster and potentially
life-threatening flash floods and urban flooding, along with
river floods. Many significant landslides are expected to occur in
the terrain is steep in the southern Appalachian.
 
To fully describe the forecast rainfall related to
Hurricane Helene, please see National Weather Service Hurricane
Total precipitation graphic, available at
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and risk of flash floods
Graphics at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.
 
For a list of related precipitation observations (and wind reports)
This storm, see the summary of the storm that accompanies WBCSCCNS4 with
Header WMO ACUS44 KWBC or at the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.
 
TORNADOES: The risk of some tornadoes continuing tonight
early Friday morning across northern/central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina and southern North Carolina. The risk of a tornado will be
exist on Fridays across Carolina and southern Virginia.
 
SURFING: The waves created by Helene will affect much of Florida and
the coast of Georgia and the Carolinas over the next few years
Day.  These waves have the potential to cause life-threatening waves and
Current condition RIP.  Please refer to the products from your local
weather office.
 
FOLLOW-UP ADVICE
-------------
The next intermediary consultation is at 200 a.m. EDT.
The next complete tip is at 500 a.m. EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Pasch
 
NNNN