ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC DDHHMM

BULLETIN
Hurricane Helene Advisory Number 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL AL092024
11:00 PM EDT, Thursday, September 26, 2024

...HURRICANE HELENE VERY CLOSE TO LANDFALL IN GREATER CENTRAL FLORIDA
FOLD...
...ACCOMPANIED BY CATASTROPHIC STORM SURGE AND LOSS OF LIFE
WINDS...


11:00 PM EDT...03:00 UTC...BRIEFING SUMMARY
-----------------------------------------------
LOCATION...29.9N 83.9W
ABOUT 75 MI...120 KM NORTHWEST OF CEDAR KEY, FLORIDA
ABOUT 40 MI...70 KM SE OF TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS...140 MPH...220 KM/H
CURRENT MOVEMENT...NNE OR 15 DEGREES AT 24 MPH...39 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE...938 MB...27.70 INCHES


ALERTS AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES TO THIS NOTICE:

None

SUMMARY OF CURRENT ALERTS AND NOTICES:

A storm surge warning is in effect for...
* Mexico Beach east and south to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Charlotte Harbor

A hurricane warning is in effect for...
* Anclote River to Mexico Beach

A hurricane warning is in effect for...
* From Englewood to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay

A tropical storm warning is in effect for...
* Florida Keys, including the Dry Tortugas
* From Flamingo to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* West of Mexico Beach to the Okaloosa/Walton County line
* Flamingo north to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee

A storm surge warning means there is a danger of life-threatening events.
Flooding, caused by rising water levels moving inland from the coast.
For a description of areas at risk, see the National Weather Report.
Service Storm Surge Watch/Alert Chart, available at
Hurricanes.gov. This is a life-threatening situation. People
located within these areas must take all necessary measures to
protect life and property from rising water levels and the potential for
other dangerous conditions. Immediately follow evacuation and other instructions
instructions from local officials.

A hurricane warning means that hurricane conditions are expected.
Somewhere within the warning area.

A tropical storm warning means that tropical storm conditions are in effect.
Something is expected to be somewhere within the warning area.

A hurricane watch means that hurricane conditions are possible.
within the surveillance area.

For storm information specific to your area in the United States
States, including possible inland alerts and warnings, please
Monitor products issued by your local National Weather Service
Forecast Office. For information on storms specific to your area
Outside the United States, monitor products issued by
Your national weather service.


DISCUSSION AND PERSPECTIVES
----------------------
At 11:00 pm EDT (03:00 UTC), the center of Hurricane Helene was
Located near latitude 29.9 North, longitude 83.9 West. Helene is
moving north-northeast near 24 mph (39 km/h). A spin
It is expected to turn northward overnight, centering over
Georgia. The center of the hurricane is expected to make landfall.
Coming soon to the Big Bend region of Florida. After making landfall,
Helene is expected to turn northwest and slow down.
Tennessee Valley on Friday and Saturday.

Maximum sustained winds are near 140 mph (220 km/h) with higher winds.
Gusts. Helene is an extremely dangerous Category 4 hurricane. 
Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale. Weakening is expected. 
after Helene moves inland, but the fast forward speed will allow 
Strong and damaging winds, especially in gusts, to penetrate well 
inland across the southeastern United States, including over the 
highest terrain in the southern Appalachians.

Hurricane-force winds extend up to 60 miles (95 km) from the
Central and tropical storm force winds extend outward up to 310 miles
(500 km). Sustained wind of 103 km/h (64 mph) with gusts up to 84 
mph (135 km/h) was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida. A 
A wind gust of 134 km/h (83 mph) was recently reported in Steinhatchee, 
Florida.

The estimated minimum central pressure according to Hurricane Hunter 
Aircraft observations are 938 mb (27.70 inches).

A NOAA National Ocean Service tide gauge located in Cedar Key 
A water level of 7.33 feet above the average high level was recently reported. 
water.


HAZARDS AFFECTING THE EARTH
----------------------
Key messages for Helene can be found in Tropical Cyclone
Discussion under AWIPS header MIATCDAT4 and WMO header WTNT44 KNHC
and on the web at hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml

STORM SURGE: The combination of a life-threatening storm surge and
The tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to flood.
due to rising waters moving inland from the coast. The water could
reach the following heights above the ground somewhere indicated
areas if the peak wave occurs at the time of high tide...

Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL...15-20 feet
Apalachicola, FL to Carrabelle, FL...10-15 feet
Suwannee River, Florida, to Chassahowitzka, Florida...10-15 feet
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL...8-12 feet
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL...6-10 feet
Anclote River, Florida, to the center of Longboat Key, Florida...5-8 feet
Tampa Bay...5-8 feet
Downtown Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL...4-7 feet
East of Mexico Beach, FL to Indian Pass, FL...3-5 ft
From Englewood, Florida to Flamingo, Florida...3 to 5 feet
Charlotte Harbor...3-5 feet

The deepest waters will be found along the immediate coast near and towards
East of the landfall site, where the surge will occur.
Accompanied by large and dangerous waves. Wave-related flooding.
depends on the relative timing of the wave and the tidal cycle,
and can vary greatly over short distances. For more information
specific to your area, please refer to the products issued by your local office
National Weather Service Forecast Office.

For a complete description of areas at risk of storm surge flooding,
Please refer to the National Weather Service maximum storm surge graph.
available at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.

WIND: Hurricane conditions are developing within a hurricane.
Warning area. When the eye passes over it, people are reminded not to
Venture out into the relative calm, as dangerous winds will increase.
Very quickly when the eye passes. Tropical storm conditions are
that occur in South and Central Florida, and these conditions
Continues to expand northward through tropical storm warning
areas in the southeastern U.S. through early Friday morning. Strong,
Damaging winds, especially gusty ones, will likely penetrate as far as
inland as the highest terrain of the southern Appalachians.

PRECIPITATION: Over parts of the southeastern U.S. to the south
Appalachians, Helene is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations
6 to 12 inches, with isolated totals of around 20 inches. This
The rains will likely have catastrophic and potentially devastating consequences.
life-threatening flash and urban flooding, along with significant
River flooding. Numerous major landslides are expected in
Rugged terrain in the southern Appalachians.

For a complete description of the expected rainfall associated with
Hurricane Helene, see storm information from the National Weather Service.
Total precipitation chart, available at
Hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and the risk of flash flooding
graphic at hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.

For a list of associated rain observations (and wind reports)
This storm, please see the accompanying storm summary on WBCSCCNS4 with the
Header WMO ACUS44 KWBC or at the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.

TORNADOES: The risk of multiple tornadoes continues tonight until
Early Friday morning over parts of northern and central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina and southern North Carolina. The risk of tornadoes will increase.
They will linger Friday in the Carolinas and southern Virginia.

SURF: Swells generated by Helene will affect much of Florida and
the coasts of Georgia and the Carolinas for the next two years
days. These swells are likely to cause life-threatening waves and
Rip current conditions. Consult your local supplier for products.
meteorological office.


NEXT NOTICE
-------------
Next interim notice at 2:00 AM EDT.
Next full announcement at 5:00 AM EDT.

$$
The forecaster Pasch

NNNN