ZCZC MIATCPAT4 ALL
TTAA00 KNHC Human Rights
 
BULLETIN
Hurricane Helene Advisory Number 15
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami, FL AL092024
1100 PM EDT Thu 26 Sep 2024
 
... HURRICANE HELENE IS VERY CLOSE TO MAKING LANDFALL IN FLORIDA
FOLD...
... ACCOMPANIED BY A CATASTROPHIC AND POTENTIALLY DEADLY STORM SURGE
WINDS...
 
1100 PM EDT SUMMARY... 0300 UTC... INFORMATION
-----------------------------------------------
LOCATION... 29.9N 83.9W
ABOUT 75 MILES AWAY... 120 KM NORTHWEST OF CEDAR KEY, FLORIDA
ABOUT 40 MILES... 70 KM SE OF TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA
MAXIMUM SUSTAINED WINDS... 140 MPH... 220 km/h
PRESENT MOVEMENT... NNE OR 15 DEGREES AT 24 MPH... 39 KM/H
MINIMUM CENTRAL PRESSURE... 938 MB... 27.70 INCHES
 
CLOCKS AND WARNINGS
--------------------
CHANGES WITH THIS NOTICE:
 
None
 
SUMMARY OF CURRENT ALERTS AND WARNINGS:
 
A storm surge warning is in effect for...
* Playa Mexico to the east and south to Flamingo
* Tampa Bay
* Port of Charlotte
 
A Hurricane Warning is in effect for...
* Anclote River to Mexico Beach
 
A hurricane watch is in effect for...
* From Englewood to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
 
A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for...
* Florida Keys, including Dry Tortugas
* Flamingo to the Anclote River, including Tampa Bay
* West of Mexico Beach to the Okaloosa/Walton County line
* Flamingo north to Little River Inlet
* Lake Okeechobee
 
A storm surge warning means there is a life-threatening hazard
flooding, due to the increase in water moving inland from the coast. For
a representation of at-risk areas, see the National Climate
Service Storm Surge/Warning Chart, available at
hurricanes.gov.  This is a life-threatening situation.  People
located within these areas must take all necessary measures to
protect life and property from rising water and the possibility of
other dangerous conditions.  Immediate follow-up of evacuation and others
instructions from local officials.
 
A hurricane warning means hurricane conditions are expected
somewhere within the warning area.
 
A Tropical Storm Warning means that tropical storm conditions are
It is expected to be somewhere within the warning area.
 
A hurricane watch means hurricane conditions are possible
within the surveillance area.
 
For storm information specific to your area in the United States
States, including possible indoor watches and warnings, please
monitoring products issued by the local National Weather Service
Forecasting Office. For storm information specific to your area
outside the United States, check products issued by
its National Meteorological Service.
 
DISCUSSION AND PERSPECTIVES
----------------------
At 1100 PM EDT (0300 UTC), the center of Hurricane Helene was
located near latitude 29.9 North, longitude 83.9 West. Helene is
moving north-northeast near 24 mph (39 km/h).  One shift
to the north is expected during the night, occupying the center
Georgia.  The center of the hurricane should make landfall
very soon in the Big Bend region of Florida.  After touching land,
Helene is expected to turn to the northwest and slow down over the
Tennessee Valley on Friday and Saturday.
 
Maximum sustained winds are near 140 mph (220 km/h) with higher winds
Bursts.  Helene is an extremely dangerous Category 4 hurricane 
the Saffir-Simpson hurricane-force wind scale.  Weakening expected 
after Helene moves inland, but the rapid forward speed will allow 
strong and damaging winds, especially in gusts, to penetrate well 
across the southeastern United States, including over the 
higher ground in southern Appalachia.
 
Hurricane-force winds extend up to 60 miles (95 km) from the
Center, tropical-storm-force winds extend outward up to 310 miles
(500 km).  A sustained wind of 64 mph (103 km/h) with gusts of up to 84 mph 
A speed of 135 km/h was recently reported in Cedar Key, Florida.   One 
A gust of 83 mph (134 km/h) was recently reported in Steinhatchee, 
Florida.
 
The estimated minimum central pressure based on Hurricane Hunter 
Aircraft Observations is 938 MB (27.70 inches).

A NOAA National Ocean Service tide gauge located in Cedar Key 
A water level of 7.33 feet above the highest mean level was recently reported 
Water.
 
HAZARDS AFFECTING THE EARTH
----------------------
Key messages for Helene can be found in the Tropical Cyclone
Discussion regarding the WMO MIATCDAT4 AWIPS heading and the WTNT44 KNHC heading
and on the web in hurricanes.gov/text/MIATCDAT4.shtml
 
STORM SURGE: The combination of a life-threatening storm surge and
The tide will cause normally dry areas near the coast to flood
due to the increase in the waters that move inland from the coast.  Water could
reach the following heights above the ground somewhere in the
areas if the peak of the swell occurs at the time of high tide...
 
Carrabelle, FL to Suwannee River, FL... 15-20 feet
Apalachicola, FL to Carrabelle, FL... 10-15 feet
Suwannee River, FL to Chassahowitzka, FL... 10-15 feet
Chassahowitzka, FL to Anclote River, FL... 8-12 feet
Indian Pass, FL to Apalachicola, FL... 6-10 feet
Anclote River, FL in the middle of Longboat Key, FL... 5-8 feet
Tampa Bay... 5-8 feet
Middle of Longboat Key, FL to Englewood, FL... 4-7 feet
East of Mexico Beach, FL to Indian Pass, FL... 3-5 feet
Englewood, FL to Flamingo, FL... 3-5 feet
Port of Charlotte... 3-5 feet
 
The deepest waters will occur along the immediate coast near and to
east of the place where it made landfall, where the swell will occur.
accompanied by large and dangerous waves.  Flooding related to storm surges
it depends on the relative timing of the swell and the tidal cycle,
and it can vary greatly over short distances.  For information
specific to your area, please refer to the products issued by your
National Weather Service Forecast Office.
 
For a full description of areas at risk of storm surge flooding,
check the National Weather Service's maximum storm surge graph,
Available in hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?peakSurge.
 
WIND: Hurricane conditions are occurring within the hurricane
Warning zone.  When the eye passes by, people are reminded not to
Venture into the relative calm, as dangerous winds will increase
very quickly when the eye passes.  Tropical storm conditions are
that occur in South and Central Florida, and these conditions
continue to spread northward through tropical storm warning
areas in the southeastern U.S. through early Friday morning.  Strong
Damaging winds, especially in gusts, are likely to penetrate up to
inland as the highest terrain in southern Appalachia.
 
PRECIPITATION: Over portions of southeastern U.S. to the south
Appalachia, Helene is expected to produce total rainfall accumulations
6 to 12 inches, with isolated totals around 20 inches. This
The rains are likely to cause catastrophic and potentially
life-threatening flash and urban flooding, along with significant
river floods. Numerous major landslides are expected in
rugged terrain across southern Appalachia.
 
For a complete description of the forecasted rainfall associated with
Hurricane Helene, please see the storm from the National Weather Service
Graph of total rainfall, available at
hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?rainqpf and the risk of flash floods
Graph in hurricanes.gov/graphics_at4.shtml?ero.
 
For a list of associated rainfall observations (and wind reports)
This storm, see the companion storm summary in WBCSCCNS4 with the
WMO ACUS44 KWBC Header or at the following link:
www.wpc.ncep.noaa.gov/discussions/nfdscc4.html.
 
TORNADOES: Risk of multiple tornadoes continues tonight
early Friday morning over parts of northern/central Florida, Georgia,
South Carolina and southern North Carolina. The risk of tornadoes
persist Friday in the Carolinas and southern Virginia.
 
SWELL: Swells generated by Helene will affect much of Florida and
the coasts of Georgia and the Carolinas over the next two years
Days.  These waves are likely to cause life-threatening swell and
rip current conditions.  Please check the products of your store
Meteorological Office.
 
NEXT NOTICE
-------------
Next interim notice at 200 AM EDT.
Next full notice at 500 AM EDT.
 
$$
Forecaster Pasch
 
NNNNN